ROBYN: There are things
in this world that no one
should have to experience.
And it is my job
to make them right.
It's okay. We're the good guys.
Previously onThe Equalizer...
This is Melody,
one of my oldest friends.
[Mel grunts]How's it going, Harry?
I need those
freaky-ass superpowers of yours.
[grunts]
I serve as an equalizer.
It's what I was put
on this earth to do.
[grunts]
[jazz music playing]
[woman screams][engine revving]
MAN:
Whoo! Let's get them!
[indistinct shouting, clamoring][dog barking]
Get over here![glass shatters]
[shouting continues][woman screams]
[explosion in distance]
MAN:
Burn it to the ground!
[music distorts, stops]
[screaming]RUTHIE:
Ella?
Upstairs!
[screaming continues]
Ella!
[grunting]
Stay back!
[Ruthie screams]
We don't want no trouble. No!
[screams]
Daddy!Ella, we have to go.
Come on.[coughing]
RUTHIE:
It's okay.Go.
MAN:
Go on, grab it!
[Ella crying]
♪
ROBYN: Y'all really
gonna make me choose?
Come on, now. Stop stalling.
Yeah, Mom. Which is better?
Damn!Boom! Told you.
Almond flour was the move.
[chuckles]Girl, congratulations.
That means you can
start making breakfast
for everybody from now on.Wait, what?
[Robyn laughs]Good luck with that.
Okay, no.
That is not her recipe.
She set me up.
Ooh, Aunt Vi with
the long game.
What you got up for today?Vera's coming over.
She's applying for the U.N.'s
youth internship program,
and she asked me
for help on her essay.
[doorbell rings]Smart, asking you.
[chuckles]
Okay, I'm out.VI: She's in the kitchen.
Bye. Love you.Love you.
Have fun.VERA:
Thanks.
Hey, Vera.
Thank you so much
for doing this with me.
Of course.
I mean, United Nations?
That's so exciting.I know, right?
[chuckles]Okay.
Let me know what you think.Okay.
Um...
Wait, is this a mistake?
It says "Vera Lopez."
I thought your last name
was Franks.
Lopez is my middle name. My mom
thinks I stand a better chance
if they know
I'm a minority candidate.
But you're not.
I kinda am.
Lopez is my middle name
from my grandfather's side,
and I have the right to use it.
Okay, but should you?
I'm just saying
I've known you
since junior high,
and you've never said
you were anything but white.
But now that being a minority
can help you...
Does that
not ring false to you?
Why not use Franks
and then put Lopez
as your middle name
if that's true.
It istrue.
I wouldn't lie about that.
And this program
could really help me
get into some good colleges.
I thought you of all people
would understand.No,
I mean, I want to help you.
It's just...
I'm not sure
if I'm okay with this.
Seriously, Dee?
[chuckles]:
Wow.
Fine.
This painting you want me
to find. Do you have a photo?
No. Just my grandmother's
descriptions.
When was it stolen?On May 31,
1921, from her house
in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Tulsa?
You don't mean...?
The first night,
there were shootings.
Fires came on the second.
On the third, planes
dropped bombs.
35 blocks of Black Wall Street
burned to the ground
by race terrorists.
My grandmother Ella was
left homeless that night.
Her mother, Ruthie,
lost her life.
The whole event
was just pure evil.
And we're still living
with the scars.
Ever heard
of Henry Ossawa Tanner?
The artist. Course.
Powerful work.At the turn of the century,
my great-grandfather
commissioned him
to do a portrait of Ruthie.
This is a rough sketch
from my grandmother's memory.
That painting,
along with trucks
and supplies from our family's
shipping business,
were stolen that night.
Did your grandmother say by who?She was just a child.
But she never forgot.
Not their faces
or their laughter.
It was the Nardoni Brothers.
Wilford and Neil.As in...?
Nardoni International Shipping.
Their family built their empire
on what was stolen from ours.
Last year,
Fortunedid a profile
on Roger Nardoni,
great-grandson of Wilford.
Now owner of the company.
You see that there?
That's the corner
of the painting.
It's in his home office.
Or was when they took the photo.
Have you contacted him?
We have. Our lawyers have.
But, of course, he denied it.
We even got the police to search
his place, but they claimed
they couldn't find it.
It'd be worth millions today.
But it's not about the money.
[crying]
Grandmother Ella is now 107,
and she hasn't seen
her mother's face
in over 100 years.
Her dying wish
is to see her one last time
before she passes.
We know he has it.
But we're at a
dead end here,
and Grandmother Ella
doesn't have much time.
Can you help us?
DANTE:
Your client is right.
Police did conduct a search
of Roger Nardoni's place
five months ago.
Found nothing, but...
But what?DANTE:
I doubt they looked very hard.
Nardoni's a major donor
to the benevolent fund.
Billionaires certainly know
how to hide their assets.
Listen, you find something,
give me a call.
Until then, I can't help you.
Thanks.
HARRY:
All right, Roger Nardoni.
CEO, Nardoni Shipping.
In the last hundred
years, they've expanded
from trucks to tank barges.
Now they run 25 container ships
to Asia and South America.
Not exactly a "pull yourself up
by your bootstraps" kind of guy.
His fortune, his business:
all inherited from his family.
And all stolen
from someone else's.
And this kind of injustice
leaves a legacy.
Just like wealth.
Gets passed down
through the generations.
The first thing we need to
do is find that painting.
Harry, dig into his life.
See what you can learn.
Where you going?
Nardoni's.
Cops may have tipped him
before the search
so he could hide the painting.
It's been long enough,
maybe he put it back.
So you're gonna, what,
break into his house?
Why break in
when I can be invited?
Ms. Brandicott. Come.
Thank you for seeing me
on such short notice.
Oh, anyone who moves half a
billion semiconductors a year
is someone I can
make time for.
Those are
impressive numbers.
Not as impressive
as your art collection.
You have
quite the eclectic taste.
At least, to my untrained eye.
It's true. My taste
spans the globe,
just like my business.
You're shipping
out of Taiwan?
Port of Gaoxiong.
I thought your company
had a contract with Maersk.
We do. And we're not happy.
But we want
to avoid a potential frenzy,
so we're not advertising.
It's why you didn't want
to come to the office.
Mr. Toshigi doesn't like rumors.
What about this one?
Ah.
It's a Burchfield. 1916.
1916? Really?
The colors are vibrant.
No cracking at all.
It almost looks new.
Well, like you said,
your eye is untrained.
A-About your order.
What kind of time frame
are you thinking about?
As soon as possible
once we see numbers
we like.
Mr. Toshigi
would like bids by Friday.
And if word leaks,
you're out.
But don't worry.
From what I've seen,
I have a feeling
we'll be talking again soon.
It's the same frame,
but the painting is new.
Designed to match
what's in the magazine.
And when I asked Nardoni
about it, his face lit up
with micro-tells.
MEL:
He must've gotten spooked
by the Watkins family inquiry.
Swapped it out
to maintain deniability.
He has it.
Or he had it.
Question is where is it now?
I think I might know.
Ever heard of The Vault?
The warehouse in Brooklyn?
That's a free port, right?
A free port?It's a free trade zone.
Mostly used to store goods
in transit to avoid customs,
but billionaires like to keep
their art there because,
technically, it's considered
outside the country,
so, you know,
they don't have
to pay duties and taxes on it.
And that's legal?HARRY:
It's one of a thousand loopholes
these guys like to exploit.
The day before the cops
raided Nardoni's place, right,
he moved a bunch of items
from his place to the free port.
And I think the Watkins family
portrait might be one of them.
So, how do I get in?You don't.
The place's security
rivals Fort Knox,
and that's the known layer.
There's an unknown layer?
The inside
is cloaked in secrecy.
Check it out.
The security design team
not only consisted
of former Secret Service
but of legendary art thief
turned security expert
Omer Eldad.
I mean,
he's the best in the biz.
However good you are
at getting into places, this guy
is better at keeping people out.
Maybe I can't get in, but...
I know someone who can.
["Wicked Ones"
by Dorothy playing]
Jessie Cook.
They call her The Worm.
She's a savant-level thief.
Rumored to have
photographic memory.
Legendary for breaking into
high-security places.
She's gifted. Brilliant.
The best at what she does.
But she's also
out of her damn mind.
She's devious, unpredictable,
totally amoral
and only cares about herself.
You've worked
with her before.Bishop
recruited her to help me
infiltrate a Chinese naval base.
Halfway in, she decides
she needs a bigger payday.
She wouldn't move
until he wired the funds.
We barely made it
out of there alive.HARRY: So,
maybe you don't call her.
Doing this ourselves
would take weeks,
maybe months to plan.
Grandma Ella
doesn't have that kind of time.
We gonna pull this off,
we need The Worm.
But if she only cares
about herself,
what makes you think
she'll help?
Because I know
what makes her tick.
We just have to find her.
♪
[both laugh]
Oh, you are quite the charmer.
Why don't you finish up
your drink.
I'm gonna get freshened up,
and I'll be right back.
[grunting, groaning loudly]
♪ This night ain't
for the faint of heart ♪
♪ For the faint of heart,
♪ This night ain't
♪ For the faint of heart
'cause the faint of heart ♪
♪ Gon' fall apart
♪
♪ This night ain't
for the holy man ♪
♪ With the holy plan
for the promise land ♪
♪ This night
we got the evil hand... ♪[safe unlocks]
[gasps]
Come here.
Little baby.
[inhales]
Aren't you
a pretty girl.
Oh!
Thanks, girl.
You shouldn't have.
♪ We the wicked ones,
the wicked ones. ♪
What's that, about 20 carats?22.
Diamonds don't seem
like your thing, Robbie.
You're more of, like,
a gunmetal leather kind of girl.
Like this jewel, I am
multifaceted.Why are you here?
And I know you're not here
for that rock.
I got a job for you.Oh, no.
I don't work for other people.
Especially people who talk
about me behind my back.
Talk behind...
I was debriefed by the CIA.
You didn't have to
tell them everything.
You detonated a bomb.
As a distraction.
I was improvising.
You almost improvised me
into the afterlife.
Oh, stop whining. You lived.
Speaking of bombs,
we should go.
Thank you.
Seriously?
We don't have much time,
but if you'd like to stay,
be my guest.
Stay out of my way.
I'm hitting The Vault.
The Vault?
The Holy Grail.
Imagine the bragging rights.
What's the score?
A painting. It was stolen
from a family
during the Tulsa massacre.
I'm returning it
to its proper owners.
Restitution. Noble.
What's in it for me?
It's in billionaire
Roger Nardoni's vault.
Help me get in,
anything else that's in there
is yours.
No way.
That's insane. Nobody has
ever breached The Vault.
Be the first.
I do love being the first.
So? What do you say?
[watch beeps]
Ooh. I say we got to go.
["Wicked Ones"
by Dorothy resumes]
[explosion][screaming]
Why do you always have
to blow everything up?
'Cause it works.
If it ain't broke,
don't fix it.
♪ The wicked ones.
Ah. It's after 11:00.
What are you
still doing up?Can't sleep.
I don't know.
I can't stop thinking.
Want to talk about it?
No.
Maybe.
Okay.
Yes.
I had a fight with Vera.About what?
Her essay.
Her last name is Franks, but
she's using her grandfather's
last name, Lopez,
because her mom thinks
she'll have a better chance at
getting into the U.N. program.
I mean, don't you think
that's unethical?
Do youthink it's unethical?Yes.
She's lying about her name
to get a minority slot.
But she's not lying
about her heritage.
No, but you'd never know that
by the way that she acts.
It's not who she is.
And you told her
how you felt?Course I did.
Dee, I just love how you stand
up for what you believe in,
but, you know, everything
isn't always so black-and-white.
I know.
I want to talk it out,
but I have a feeling
she never wants
to speak to me again.
Do you think
I should've just let it go?
No. I don't think that, either.
When I was your age,
I wasn't always sure who I was
because that is a process,
honey.
It takes time.
Instead of calling her out,
maybe you want to consider
calling her in.
Go to bed.Night.
Oh.
Where are we?
That's need to know,
and you don't need to know.
Harry, Mel,
meet Jessie Cook.
The Worm.
Oh, okay.
Is this your little crew?
Cute.
I hope she told you
I'm a solo act?
We heard all about your act.
The Met, the Getty
and the Louvre.
That's quite the hat trick.
Well, I do love a challenge.
HARRY:
Is it true
you escaped the Louvre
in a stolen speedboat?
It is. That was pretty epic.
But what's the point
in doing anything
if you're not gonna have
a little fun along the way?
ROBYN:
Fun over function.
Story of your life.
Stick, meet ass.
Story of yours.
HARRY:
Wow.
So, The Vault.Right, yeah.
I managed to hack
the client portal
and pull some blueprints.
Nardoni's unit is right here,
but unfortunately, the only
system I was able access
were surveillance cams.
For the rest of his security,
we're completely in the dark.
All right, well,
let me turn some lights on
for you. They use
a mix of high-tech
and practical systems.
Now, you can access any floor
with a key card,
but the hallways
are gonna be blanketed
with state-of-the-art
motion sensors.
Now, here's another
little, fun tidbit.
Each main hallway is protected
by these random pressure plates
under the tile.
Step on one
and the world comes running.
Hold on a second. How can you
possibly know all this?
I mean,
their security is top secret.
Let's just say
I went to the source.
You didn't.
Oh, yeah, I did.
I bumped into him in Santorini,
and we bumped all night.
After about ten ouzos,
he could not stop bragging
about his impenetrable system.
You dudes really love
chatting it up
about your equipment.
[chuckles]
Okay, well...Yeah, they do. [chuckles]
What are you laughing at?It was funny.
JESSIE:
Once he passed out,
I got the schematics
off his laptop.
Did you download them?Hell no. It's all up here.
But it's useless.
It's the outer layer that makes
The Vault the Holy Grail.
Reinforced steel,
biometric security,
military-grade defense system.
Every package
that's delivered
has to be authorized
by the client's voiceprint.
If the computer
does not recognize
that voiceprint exactly,
the facility is not accepting
that delivery.
Who's authorized
on Nardoni's account?
[keys clacking]
HARRY:
James Decker.
His right-hand man.Wow.
Looks like he'd
be fun at parties.HARRY: Well,
you can find out, actually.
He and Nardoni are scheduled
to be at an art auction
later today.
You thinking what I'm thinking?
JESSIE:
Wait a minute.
What you thinking?
Mel, you have anything
in your closet
that just screams,
"I like to spend money"?
[indistinct chatter]
HARRY:
Wow. That is a great outfit.
You do look money, honey.
Let's hope
Decker thinks so, too.
All righty,
voice capture software
is online.
Okay, six o'clock.
He's headed your way.
Did a little research.
He's a history buff.
He collects watches.
Got it.
Oh! I'm so sorry.[chuckles]
Are you okay, miss?Yeah. It's totally my fault.
My mother always said
I was clumsy.
DECKER:
You make clumsy look good.
[gasps]
Wow. That is a nice watch.
DECKER:
Ah, thank you.
It's a classic.Oh.
1917 caged trench watch from...
World War I?
It's exquisite.Ah. Fellow horophile?
Sure. Yeah.
Then you'll appreciate
that I'm the second person
to own this piece.[Mel gasps]
Okay, great. You're doing great,
honey. I just need
an "ow" and a "zzz."
Is that right?
Yes. The original owner
was a quirky Brit.
A military man.
Hmm.HARRY: Mention
the Anglo-Zanzibar War.
He must have fought
in the Anglo-Manzibar War.[chuckles]
You mean the Anglo-Zanzibar War.MEL:
Yes.
DECKER:
Did you know that was actually
the shortest recorded
war in history?
Really?Good, good, good.
I still just need an "ow."
Um, "cow,"
"thou," "plow."Hmm.
[stomps]Ow!
MEL:
I am so sorry.That'll do.
I told you, I'm clumsy.
[chuckles]
You know what,
I'm gonna give you some space.
Okay. Did you get that?
Loud and clear. Just gonna
put it together. Meanwhile...
I know. I better get changed.
Delivery for Roger Nardoni.
Nothing's scheduled for today.
Seriously? They said that
they were gonna call you.
Can you please check?[phone ringing]
Hold on a sec.
[ringing continues]Yep?
DECKER'S VOICE:
This is James Decker
calling in a delivery
for Roger Nardoni.
Single crate. A sculpture.
Thank you, Mr. Decker.
You're clear.Thanks.
Hey, hold on a sec. Stop.[brakes screech]
You're riding low
on your left rear.
You might want to
get some air.
Will do.
Appreciate it.
[wood creaking]
I can't believe
you brought snacks.
You don't want to know me
when I'm hungry.
I'm not sure I want to
know you now.
Don't forget,
I'm doing youa favor.
Bishop should have
never recruited you
from that prison in Marseille.
I would have escaped anyway.
Ooh.
Just so you know,
this ain't Nardoni's vault.
Harry, where the hell are we?
Remember that path
we meticulously planned from
Nardoni's vault to the exit?
You're nowhere near it.
Looks like you're in
some sort of
secure holding room
on the opposite side
of the facility
with God knows what in between.
In other words, we're screwed.
That's about right.
Harry?
Harry, can you hear me?
Concrete's blocking
the signal.
Let's go.
No.
We don't know if he has
control of the cameras yet.
There's only one way
to find out.
[whispering]:
What are you doing?
You hear any sirens? No.
We're fine.No, we're not fine.
He has the map.
We don't know where we're going.
I learned early in this world
you can only depend on yourself.
I memorized those blueprints.
It's this way.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Actually, it's this way.
I'm thinking about the-the
blueprints upside down.
Wait, wait, wait!
What?
You see those sconces?
They are next-gen
motion detectors.
Had 'em in the Louvre.
You so much as bat an eyelash
and you set them off.
How do we get past them?
Well, it just depends if they
updated the software.
If it's new firmware, we won't.
But if the firmware is old...
What are you doing?
Too many data points overwhelmed
the old software.
It's logged in as an error.
And then the system
just reboots itself.
Wait for it.
Five, four,
three, two...
Yes!
The system just rebooted itself.
We got 15 seconds.
Race you.
Damn, Robbie,
you getting slow.
Keep it up, you gonna
get us caught.What the hell, Jess?
Next time, tell me
before you take off.
Oh, here you go.
You know, it's just like China.
It's not you, it's me.
You know what?
It's not my fault
if you can't keep up.
Girl, I'm gonna hurt you.
Did I not just
get us to the door
of the stairwell?
Is Nardoni's unit not upstairs
and down the hall?
I would think you would
stop criticizing me
and just be a little bit
more impressed.
Just open the door.
What?
I need a key card.
No. You cannot need
a key card.
Because you said you would
get a key card.
You said it'd be easy to get.
Okay, so my source
didn't come through.
So I'm gonna improv.
I'm gonna improv!Improv? No, no, no, no.
I hate your improv.
[grunts]
[chuckles]
Easy peasy sleazy.
Yeah, except now we have
an unconscious guard.
It's cool. Just tie his ass up
and throw him in there.
If you would have gotten
a card beforehand,
we could have been
in and out of here
without anyone ever knowing.
Every good plan needs
a little improv.
You know, like jazz.
Jazz my ass.
Now we're on the clock.
What if he wakes up?
What if he manages to get help?
Well, we can always kill him.
We don't have to worry
about him waking up then.
Would that make you happy?
No. But shooting you would.
I said I would get a card,
and I got a card.
Show a little gratitude.
Just a teeny, teeny bit.
[lock beeps]
All right.
This is the floor
I was talking about.
Random pressure plates.
Now, all the tiles
look the same,
but if you step on the
wrong one, party over.
And you memorized it?Yes.
From a guy you were
drinking with.Yes.
How many years ago?Three.
How much ouzo?
Now, why would I do anything
to jeopardize me?
Just take every step
that I take.
Whoa!
Is it here, or is it there?
[chuckles]
Relax. Have some fun.
Remember that night in Macao
with the tiger
and the motorcycle?
[laughs]
That was fun.
Yeah. And we got the
access codes, right?
So just chill, I got you.
Nardoni's unit is
right down there.
Oh. You hear that?
What?
Wait. Wait.
I didn't see
where you stepped.
I know.What are you doing?
You know I didn't just
come here for that painting.
This'll only take a minute.
No. Get back here.
This is not our mission.
Back soon. Don't move.
Like I have a choice.
[grunting]
[Robyn sighs]
Damn.
Okay...
it's gotta be that one.
Okay, one down,
another dozen to go.[door opens]
[door closes, beeps]
GUARD:
Hallway seven is clear.
[grunts]
I told you, I got you.
Let's go to Nardoni's
vault. Come on.
Just like that,
we in, baby. Yes!
You did that.
Don't touch me.
Start with those.
♪ I'm a little bit lady
and a lot of bit freak ♪
♪ Call me Sabrina,
got tricks you never seen ♪
♪ Calling all the shots,
got pins like voodoo ♪
♪ I'm only bad news
if I'm coming for you ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm the CEO.
Yo, Robbie.Don't call me that.
You remember when you told me
that if I helped you out,
I could have
anything I want in the vault?
That was before your little
side hustle back there.
Well, it doesn't matter,
'cause all of this
is worthless.
What do you mean?I'm an art thief.
This is what I do.
This is all junk.
But the invoices...
So Nardoni sells this piece
to an idiot
for $12 million.
Sells this other piece over here
for, like, seven.
These pieces are barely worth
the cost of the frames
they're sitting in.
This is money laundering.
Who are the buyers?
Wyatt Gardner.I know that name.
He's the CEO
of Carthage Chemicals.
I'm starting to detect a theme
because this piece over here
he sold to
a Banotide Chemical Company
for, like, $11 million.
And I mean, this is something
my two-year-old nephew could do.
What about these?
This is what he's been buying.
Meh, same thing.
Worthless.
What is he doing?
Whatever it is,
it's gonna have to wait.
We've got a painting to find.
Come on.
[breathing heavily]
[groans]
Yo, McCall.
Wow. She is beautiful.
[alarm blaring]
[guard shouting in distance]
Hey, help me with this.
Guards! We gotta go.
[indistinct shouting
in distance]
Robbie, now!
Come on!
GUARD:
Lock it down! Lock it down!
[alarm blaring]JESSIE: Hell yeah!
Stolen van,
people shooting at us!
Now, that's living!
Come on, now.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Whoa!
You see that gate?
♪ I'm the CEO,
on the top shelf, yeah ♪
♪ I'm the top pick
Yo!
♪ I'm-a let you know it,
made a deal ♪
♪ With the devil,
now I own him ♪
♪ Got nothing on me... [shouting]
We got away scot-free.
We got away scot-free!
[tires screech]Come on, now!
That was awesome.
Next time I drive.
Next time?
Do you understand
what you did?
That little detour of yours
cost me my one shot
at retrieving that painting.
And for what? Some earrings?
Those aren't just
any earrings.
Those are the matching set
to Marie Antoinette's
strand necklace, okay.
Which I stole from the Louvre.
That's what this was about:
a matching set.
I knew you were
gonna try something.
Still, I wanted to believe
that you were better than that.
What about what
this meant for me?
Okay, this was a
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
Do you hear yourself?
You just sacrificed this
family's rightful legacy.
A dying woman's wish
to remember her mother's face.
For your selfishness
and greed.
We can still get the painting.
How? We can't get back in.
I don't know how yet,
but something will work out.
It always does.
It must be really lonely
only caring about yourself.
I hope they were worth it.
Come on, Robbie, you can't...Get out.
We're done.
Cool.
[doorbell rings]
Hey, Dee.
I just came by
to tell you that
you can stop calling
and texting and DMing
me obsessively.
Fine. I will leave you alone.No.
Can I come in?
Listen, I was already feeling
weird about the name thing,
and then you called me on it.
I was honestly just
trying to protect you.
You could be canceled
if anyone found out.
But I should probably keep
my opinions to myself.
But, Dee, what you said,
it made me think about
who I am and where I came from.
I never paid any attention to it
or asked any questions about it.
Like why no one in my family
ever spoke a word
of Spanish to me,
or why we don't celebrate
the holidays
that my grandparents did.
Did you ask them?Yeah.
They weren't too happy about it
at first, either.
But once we all got
over ourselves,
I learned a lot about why
my grandfather
wanted us to assimilate,
and how they passed that on
to my mother.
There was a whole part of
who I am that was missing,
and I didn't even know it.
That's what I want to
write my essay about.
So, will you help me?
Yes.
I would love to help you
write about that.
Okay, come on.
I had it.
It was right there.
All right, there's gotta be
a way to get the painting.
Well, we can't break back in.
They'll be prepared for that.
But those junk paintings
of Nardoni's...
If we can figure out
what he's doing,
maybe we can leverage him.
I think I might be able to help.
Check this out.
Ten years ago, both the Banotide
and Carthage Chemical companies
were fined by the EPA
for illegally dumping
toxic waste
in rural areas in the Midwest.
They had to pay huge settlements
to some communities
where there were spikes
in cancer levels.
And supposedly they
cleaned up their act, but...
You think the companies
paid Nardoni
to get rid of
their waste for them.
Well, why else would they be
spending millions on junk art?
I mean, clearly
they're payoffs.
Jessie said this was
money laundering.
So this waste, where
are they shipping it?
To poor countries.
Nardoni is bribing local
officials in the same way
by overpaying
for worthless art.
Look, I tracked the names.
Check it out.
These villages are suffering
the same sorts
of cancer clusters as
the towns in the Midwest.
So he's building a fortune
by destroying communities.
Just like his family did
in Tulsa.
But without those paintings,
we have to figure out
a way to prove it.
[phone rings]
Ms. Watkins?
I'm sorry to bother you.
Don't apologize.
How's your grandmother?
The doctors say she doesn't
have much time left.
All right, Miss Ella.
Just relax.
I was hoping you might have
some good news to share.
I'm sorry, not yet.
But we're still trying.Rob?
I'll call you back as soon
as I have something, I promise.
What do we got?We may be too late.
Nardoni's emptying his space.
He's making the evidence
and the Watkins family
painting disappear.
If he ends up
shipping this overseas
to another free port,
we've lost our proof.
We can't let that happen.
Don't move.Hands on the handle.
Hands. Come on!
[flex-cuff tightens]
I'll check the cargo area.ROBYN: Okay.
I got Dante on speed dial.
You find anything?
I'll take your weapon. Now!
So, I guess I shouldn't worry
about getting that bid in
to Mr. Toshigi.
Who do you work for?
I mean, it must not be
Customs or the EPA or FBI;
you'd have IDs, badges.
A hundred years ago,
your grandparents
stole a legacy.
I'm here to get it back.
Wait...
this is about that painting?
You think it's funny, what you
put that family through?No.
I'm just happy that's
who you're working for.
It means no one will be looking
when you both go missing.
Find a hole. Bury them.
Make sure it can't be
traced back to us.
[chuckles]
You really are clumsy.
Move. Both of you.
Got any ideas?No. You?
No.
[grunts]
Y'all miss me?
[clamoring, groaning nearby]
[thudding]
[objects clattering]
You know, the funny thing is,
you could have avoided
all of this
if you would have just
given back their painting
when they asked.
But that's not how
your family does things, is it?
You'll never get
away with this.
[dialing]
Yes, I'd like to report a fire
at the Nardoni residence.
Wait, what are you doing?
Your ancestors burned another
family's life to the ground.
You need to know how that feels.
You're gonna kill me
over a painting?
Well, we're not gonna
burn you alive.
I'm pretty good with knots.
Should take you about
five minutes
to wiggle out of those.
But by that time,
the fire will have spread,
and you won't be able
to stop it.
And if you decide
to wake your men,
you should have, like,
ten minutes to get this art
off the wall. That
should be enough time.
And you can watch
as the rest of your house burns,
right along with all
your prized possessions.
But that's okay.
Because they never really
belonged to you anyway.
NARDONI:
No, wait, please.
Please. I-I'll pay you!
I'll pay you.
[grunts]
No!
Please.Don't take it.
Can't leave the Basquiat.
Good point.
[Nardoni grunting]
"Thanks for saving us, Jessie."
Oh, you're so very welcome,
Robbie.
Oh, no, really, we would have
all been dead
if you hadn't shown up.
I get it now.
Trust me, that's not even
the half of it.
How'd you find us, anyway?
You got your ways,
I got mine.
But here's what matters most.
Everything turned out fine,
just like I said it would.
For you, maybe.
But the Watkins family still
doesn't have their painting.
And Nardoni still has
his billions.
Without that proof,
he'll get away with
dumping toxic waste
into third-world nations.
Yeah... about that.
[chuckling]
[sirens wailing]
♪
REPORTER:
In a joint investigation
with the NYPD, the FBI
arrested shipping magnate
Roger Nardoni today
on multiple charges
of money laundering and bribery
in a scheme involving
the illegal shipment
of toxic waste.
This arrest comes just after
Mr. Nardoni's home
was struck by
a mysterious fire.
See? Happy ending.
I told you.
You worry too much.
Only one thing I don't get.
You've never risked your neck
for anyone
unless you were getting paid.
Why'd you come back for me?
Please. I didn't
come back for you.
I came back for that Basquiat.
Right. The Basquiat.
Well, I gotta admit,
you got the job done.
Aha!
So you admit that
you were wrong.
Go ahead, say it!
Different doesn't
make deficient.
We just got two different
styles, that's all.
Yeah, I see it now.
You make chaos work for you.
It shows the cracks,
so you can take advantage
of them.
Exactly.
And if I'm gonna be honest...
...there is something to having
a well-thought-out plan, too.
I guess.[laughs]
Well, all that matters
is we got that painting back.
Which means this little
joint venture of ours
is officially over,
and we never have to
work with each other again.
[laughs]
Never say never.
You know this mission
ain't over, right?
Shall we?
♪ I see skies of blue
♪ And clouds of white
Grandmother Ella,
we have something to show you.
♪ And the dark, sacred night
♪ And I think to myself
Mama.
♪ What a wonderful world
Grandmother, look.
♪ What a wonderful world.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org